Wiki restructuring - CI environment (#1229)
Azure/ResourceModules: docs/wiki/The CI environment - Pipeline usage.md

This section provides a guideline on how to use the CARML CI environment pipelines.

---

### _Navigation_

- [Operate the module pipelines](#operate-the-module-pipelines)
  - [Add a new module pipeline](#add-a-new-module-pipeline)
- [Operate the dependency pipelines](#operate-the-dependency-pipeline)
  - [Add a new dependency](#add-a-new-dependency)
- [DevOps-Tool-specific](#devops-tool-specific-guidance)
  - [GitHub workflows](#github-workflows)
  - [Azure DevOps pipelines](#azure-devops-pipelines)

---

# Operate the module pipelines

> To validate any updates you did to a module template you can perform the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To validate updates to a module template, you can perform the following steps:
```

1. (Optionally) Update the module's parameter files to reflect your changes.
1. Push the local changes to the repository (using a branch that is not [main\|master]).

> 1. On the DevOps platform, navigate to your pipelines and select the pipeline that was registered for the module you updated.

Reviewer: Should we remark that 'new' modules won't have a pipeline in GitHub and that there is a theoretically workaround using a `push` trigger?

1. Select the branch with your updated template.

> 1. (Optionally) disable the `Remove deployed module` input parameter in case you don't want to apply the default behavior, and want to skip the deletion of the test-deployed resource to check it after deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (Optionally) disable the `Remove deployed module` input parameter in case you don't want to apply the default behavior and want to skip the deletion of the test-deployed resources to check them post-deployment.
```

> 1. (Optionally) adjust the `Publish prerelease module` flag in case you want to publish a prerelease version of your updated module from your development branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (Optionally) adjust the `Publish prerelease module` flag in case you want to publish a prerelease version of your updated module from your development branch 
   > **Note:** The module version is assigned a prerelease suffix
```

1.  Trigger the pipeline.

Once the pipeline concludes, it will either be in a green (success) or red (failed) state, depending on how the module performed.

Pipeline logs are available for troubleshooting and provide detailed information in case of failures. If errors occur in the [Static validation](./The%20CI%20environment%20-%20Static%20validation) phase, you may only see the failed test and need to `expand` the error message. How this looks like depends on the [DevOps platform](#devops-tool-specific-guidance) you use.

## Add a new module pipeline

> To add a new module pipeline we recommend to create a copy of a currently existing module pipeline and adjust all module-specific properties. The registration of the pipeline depends on the [DevOps platform](#devops-tool-specific-guidance) you're using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new module pipeline we recommend to create a copy of a currently existing module pipeline and adjust all module-specific properties (e.g. triggers, module paths, etc.). The registration of the pipeline depends on the [DevOps platform](#devops-tool-specific-guidance) you're using.
```

Author: If you use e.g. you can avoid etc. 🦖

Author: ```suggestion
To add a new module pipeline we recommend to create a copy of a currently existing module pipeline and adjust all module-specific properties, e.g. triggers and module paths. The registration of the pipeline depends on the [DevOps platform](#devops-tool-specific-guidance) you're using.
```

Reviewer: Somehow I cannot commit your suggestion. Can you do that yourself?

Triggering the pipeline is as easy as navigating to it in your corresponding DevOps tool and running the pipeline.

> **Note:** While operating the dependency pipeline is simple, make sure to set it up correctly as described in the [Getting Started - Dependency pipeline](./Getting%20started%20-%20Dependency%20pipeline) section.

## Add a new dependency

Depending on what you want to test in your module pipeline, you may want to include additional resources to your dependency pipeline. If so, make sure to include an additional parameter file for each service you require under `utilities/pipelines/dependencies`. Once done, you need to add the deployment to the pipeline itself making sure to deploy the new resources in the correct order. The implementation depends on the [DevOps platform](#devops-tool-specific-guidance) you're using.

---

# DevOps-Tool-specific guidance

This section provides a step-by-step guideline on how to operate the pipelines based on the specific chosen DevOps platform, GitHub or Azure DevOps.

## GitHub workflows

This section focuses on _GitHub_ Actions & Workflows.

<details>
<summary>GitHub workflows</summary>

  ### Trigger a workflow

>   To trigger a workflow in _GitHub_:

Reviewer: As before: Should we add some guidance around the fact that it's not possible to just 'register' a new pipeline from a branch?

  1. Navigate to the 'Actions' tab in your repository.

     <img src="./media/ghActionsTab.png" alt="Actions tab" height="100">

  1. Select the pipeline of your choice from the list on the left, followed by 'Run workflow' to the right. You can then select the branch of your choice and confirm the execution by clicking on the green 'Run workflow' button.

     <img src="./media/gHtriggerPipeline.png" alt="Run workflow" height="350">

  >**Note**: Depending on the pipeline you selected you may have additional input parameters you can provide aside from the branch. An outline can be found in the [Module pipeline inputs](./The%20CI%20environment%20-%20Pipeline%20design#module#module-pipeline-inputs) section.

  ### Register a workflow

  To register a workflow in _GitHub_ you have to create the workflow file (`.yml`) and store it inside the folder `.github/workflows`.

>   > ***Note:*** Once merged to [main\|master], GitHub will automatically list the new workflow in the 'Actions' tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > ***Note:*** Once merged to [main\|master], GitHub will automatically list the new workflow in the 'Actions' tab. Workflows are not registered from a branch unless you specify a temporal push trigger.
```

Author: Would this be enough to cover the previous open comment?

### _Navigation_

- [Operate the module pipelines](#operate-the-module-pipelines)
  - [Add a new module pipeline](#add-a-new-module-pipeline)

> - [Operate the dependencies pipelines](#operate-the-dependency-pipeline)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Operate the dependencies pipeline](#operate-the-dependency-pipeline)
```
